=head1 NAME

challenged - detect broken packages due to obsolete dependencies 

=head1 SYNOPSIS 

=over

=item B<challenged> [options] I<Packages file(s)> 

=back
=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

challenged performs a speculative analysis of the repository to identify those
packages that, if upgraded to a specific version, would break a large number of
other packages in the repository. This tool would be particularly useful during
the upgrade of a specific component to evaluate its impact on the software
archive.

=cut

=head1 Input Specification

The input of challenged is a list of Debian Packages files 

=cut

=head1 Output Specification

The output of challenged is in the yaml format.

=cut

=head1 Options

=over 8

=item B<-b --broken> 

Print the list of broken packages 

=item B<-d --downgrade> 

Check package downgrades 

=item B<-c> 

Print the list of packages in a cluster 

=item B<--checkonly> I<package>[,I<package>] ...

Specifies a list of packages to check. By default all packages are checked.
Takes a comma-separated list of package names and a version .

Example: --checkonly "libc6 (=1.4), 2ping (= 1.2.3-1)"

=item B<-v> 

Enable info / warnings / debug messages. This option may be repeated up to
three times in order to increase verbosity. 

=item B<--progress> 

Enable progress bars. 

=item B<-h, --help>

Display this list of options. 

=back
=cut

=head1 EXAMPLE

  challenged -v --progress Packages.bz2 > result.yaml 

=cut

=head1 NOTE

=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Pietro Abate and Roberto Di Cosmo 

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<B<distcheck>(1)B<>>
L<B<outdated>(1)B<>> 

<http://www.mancoosi.org> is the home page of the Mancoosi project.

 
