=head1 NAME

dose-debcoinstall - calculate a coinstallation set of a given set of Debian binary packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item B<dose-debcoinstall> [options] I<binary-repositories>

=back
=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dose-debcoinstall determines whether a set of foreground Debian binary packages
can be installed together given a set of background Debian binary packages. If
a valid coinstallation set exists, than it is printed on standard output; else
the application exists with exit code 1 and prints nothing. 

If the B<--src> option is given, then the associated source packages are
printed on standard output instead.

Packages are split into foreground and background: only packages in the
foreground are checked for coinstallability, but dependencies may be satisfied
by foreground packages and by background packages. By default, all packages are
in the foreground.

=cut

=head1 INPUT FORMAT

The B<binary-repositories> argument is a list of filenames containing stanzas
in the format of L<deb-control(5)>, separated by one blank line. For instance,
the Packages files as found on a Debian mirror server, or in the directory
I</var/lib/apt/lists/> of a Debian system, are suitable.

The B<--src> option requires a file containing debian source control stanzas,
separated by one blank line. For instance, the Sources files as found on a
Debian mirror server, or in the directory I</var/lib/apt/lists/> of a Debian
system, are suitable.

=cut

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<--deb-native-arch=>I<name>

Specify the native architecture. The default behavior is to deduce the native
architecture from the first package stanza in the input that has an
architecture different from all.

=item B<--deb-foreign-archs=>I<name> [,I<name>] ...

Specify a comma-separated list of foreign architectures. The default
is an empty list of foreign architectures. If B<--deb-host-arch> is set, it
is used as an implicit foreign architecture.

=item B<--deb-host-arch=>I<name>...

Specify the host architecture. If this option is given, B<--deb-native-arch>
must also be set.

=item B<-f --failures>

Print a diagnostic in YAML format containing the list of packages that were
attempted to install together and the result of the operation.

=item B<-v --successes>

Only show packages that do not fail the installability check.

=item B<-e --explain>

Explain the results in more detail providing the reason why some packages cannot
be installed together.

=item B<--src=>I<source-repository>

Instead of printing binary packages, print the associated source packages as
given in the debian Sources file B<source-repository>.

=item B<--dump=>I<cudf-file>

Dump the CUDF universe to B<cudf-file> representing the encoding of binary
and source packages, plus the coinstallability request.

=item B<--fg=>I<binary-repository>

Specify a foreground binary repository.

=item B<--bg=>I<binary-repository>

Specify a background binary repository.

=item B<--latest> I<n>

Consider only the latest -I<n> most recent versions of each package,
older versions of packages are ignored.

=item B<-v>

Enable info / warnings / debug messages. This option may be repeated up
to three times in order to increase verbosity.

=item B<-h, --help>

Display this list of options.

=back
=cut

=head1 EXIT CODES

Exit codes 0-63 indicate a normal termination of the program, codes 64-127
indicate abnormal termination of the program (such as parse errors, I/O
errors).

In case of normal program termination:

- exit code 0 indicates that a valid coinstallation set exists

- exit code 1 indicates that at no coinstallation set exists

=cut

=head1 EXAMPLE

Compute the list of binary packages needed to install all packages marked as
essential:

 grep-dctrl -X -FEssential yes \
 /var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.fr.debian.org_debian_dists_sid_main_binary-amd64_Packages \
 > essential

 dose-debcoinstall --deb-native-arch=amd64 \
 --bg /var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.fr.debian.org_debian_dists_sid_main_binary-amd64_Packages \
 --fg essential > essential_coinstall

Compute the list of source packages needed to build these packages:

 dose-debcoinstall --deb-native-arch=amd64 \
 --src /var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.fr.debian.org_debian_dists_sid_main_source_Sources \
 --bg /var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.fr.debian.org_debian_dists_sid_main_binary-amd64_Packages \
 --fg essential > essential_coinstall_src

=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

The current version has been rewritten on the basis of the dose3 library by
Pietro Abate.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<B<deb-control>(5)>,
L<B<dose3-distcheck>(1)>

<http://www.edos-project.org> is the home page of the EDOS project.
<http://www.mancoosi.org> is the home page of the Mancoosi project.
